10.6 Release Notes (#2935)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/release_notes.adoc

== Changes in 10.6.0

Dear ownCloud administrator, please find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.6 that need your attention.
You can also read {owncloud-changelog-url}[the full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

=== Migrations
* To allow sharing files with very long names (> 64 characters) via federation, a migration step will run. The impact on upgrade duration depends on the number of federated shares. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37835[#37835]

=== PHP 7.2 Deprecation Note

PHP 7.2 recently reached its https://secure.php.net/supported-versions.php[end of life] and is not maintained anymore. ownCloud Server will, therefore, drop support in one of the next minor versions as well. If you’re running on PHP < 7.3, please make sure to schedule an upgrade to PHP 7.4 as soon as possible. See the https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/installation/system_requirements.html[system requirements] for more information.

=== ownCloud Web - The New Web Frontend for ownCloud

ownCloud Server 10.6 comes with the prerequisites to run the new ownCloud Web frontend as an optional component on top of it.

> * The new server version comes with a switcher to the new frontend ("New Design"). It will be available to users in the apps menu if the address of ownCloud Web is specified in config.php. The new frontend analogously comes with a switcher back to the classic frontend ("Classic Design") to allow users to navigate back and forth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The new server version comes with a switcher to the new frontend ("New Design"). It will be available to users in the apps menu if the address of ownCloud Web is specified in config.php. Likewise, the new frontend comes with a switcher back to the classic frontend ("Classic Design") to allow users to navigate back and forth.
```

* https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37923[Pre-signed URLs] allow proper downloading and streaming of files in ownCloud Web.
* A https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37673[capability for the Favorites feature] makes it available in ownCloud Web.

> There are different ways to deploy ownCloud Web with ownCloud Server. We strive to make it as easy as possible to make the new frontend available to users. For this there is the new app for https://marketplace.owncloud.com/apps/web[Web] on the ownCloud Marketplace. It can be installed on ownCloud 10 servers with the regular tools. The app will make the new frontend available as described above when deployed and configured correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different ways to deploy ownCloud Web with ownCloud Server. We strive to make it as easy as possible to make the new frontend available to users. For this, there is the new app for https://marketplace.owncloud.com/apps/web[Web] on the ownCloud Marketplace. It can be installed on ownCloud 10 servers with the regular tools. The app will make the new frontend available as described above when deployed and configured correctly.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ... when configured correcty is non-trivial.
I suggest to add a reference to https://owncloud.github.io/clients/web/backend-oc10/

Author: Some lines below it is linked. But I can make it more clear, ok. Thanks.

* Files with names up to 255 characters can now be shared via federation (was limited to 64 before) https://github.com/owncloud/core/issues/36730[#36730]
* A user's language preference will not be overriden by locales sent by browsers anymore https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/38073[#38073]
* Fixed display of public links and user/group shares in case avatars are disabled https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37945[#37945] https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37964[#37964]
* Fixed some translations not working with themes https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/38072[#38072]
* Improved output on errors for LDAP user sync https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37951[#37951]
* A new occ command `files:troubleshoot-transfer-ownership` has been added to help finding issues with `files:transfer-ownership` https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37950[#37950]
* Added values to the invalid uid list to prevent creating users with reserved UIDs https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37766[#37766]
* The log level of "file locked" exceptions has been reduced to "debug" https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/37907[#37907]

=== Bundle and Delivery

> Since ownCloud Server 10.5 https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/release_notes.html#changes-in-delivery[all supported apps are shipped in the ownCloud Server Complete bundles]. Below you find changes made to the bundle for Server 10.6.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since ownCloud Server 10.5 https://doc.owncloud.com/server/admin_manual/release_notes.html#changes-in-delivery[all supported apps are shipped in the ownCloud Server Complete bundles]. The following changes have been made to the bundle for Server 10.6:
```
